I already said that, and those of us sincerely want to practice that which is seven spatials
from the two practices. The fourth one is not too much attached to these worldly things.
And that is generally in the Buddha's teaching, and generally when we talk in the Day of Man,
the Buddha's greatest teachers, Paul Noble Truth teaches. Paul Noble Truth teaches to
are what? To are suffering truth and a cause of suffering truth. This samsara is what we
call samsara. It is suffering, it has suffering truth, it has cause of suffering truth, it has.
Even though it is all that kind of suffering, which is suffering truth and cause of suffering truth
,
but also it has a lot of good things we can learn, we can develop from this.
The fourth one is what? In the teaching samsara. You should bring up everything what you do,
you bring up the knowledge, you bring up the knowledge of samsara. Samsara is generally
speaking, as I said, greatest teachers say, suffering truth and cause of suffering truth.
What is the cause of suffering truth? The cause of suffering truth is
emotion and it is activities. Or many times we say negativity, it is activities. Those are
cause of suffering truth. Those also we can talk later to you, but that is what suffering truth is.
The result of suffering truth is samsara. Samsara is what? All the six rams is samsara.
Among the six rams, what we see now? We see human rams, that which we are human rams.
Then we see some part of the animal rams. Rest, four or four and five rams are,
we don't see, we don't see. But according to the greatest teacher,
the buddha kyamuni is existing. Hell ram is existing. Hungry ghost ram is existing.
And animal ram is existing. We see half of that. Half or just we see some part. Maybe we not have,
we see part of that. And then we don't see the asura ram. We don't see the god's rams, god's ram.
But whether we see or not, they all are known as samsaras.
Samsara is also known as a quote, quote, no but with the terminology, it is suffering truth.
It has sufferance. It is the result of the cause,
cause of suffering truth, cause of suffering truth. Therefore, result causes suffering truth,
therefore, result what is to be loved. It has also suffering or uncomfortable,
challenging, difficulties, hardships. It's not smooth, easy going always. It's going.
And those are known as what? In the buddha teachings,
teachings, but however, all this suffering, among them we are human beings. We are all human beings
.
Also, we look to human beings. There's a variety of the human beings. Of course, we can divide
into different countries. But even in one country, there's a variety of human beings
that are going through their karmic beliefs. All are going through karmic beliefs. Even we are,
for example, this country is one of the great countries on this planet. Even this country has
varieties of the purpose. And we look, I mean, we know that. It's not something that you have to do
.
Some are very, very fancy and happy and joy and luckless. And some are so powerless.
Even worse than maybe third countries. Some are impoverished. Some are constantly fierce,
fierce, scared, and tortured. All that what buddha said, the greatest teacher buddha said,
six raim, what they're experiencing, that all things are happening to the human beings.
Even these human beings, all that, even this great country, experience something like that. Many
are
talking about this, this. And then animal beings, if you think, how many difficult troubles they're
going through. Really, sound up and taking advantages and using each other's. And there is
no way to respect and appreciate two animals most of the chance. Except maybe bad, bad dogs or bad,
bad, bad cats. Cats. Mostly, this has no any values. That's how the human mentality is just used
according to the way they like to use. In a way, all that I'm not going to bring, all that you,
we all know. Torture, all that put their joys, put their happiness, put one's own happiness. Really
,
according to the teaching, those are really hell realm experience. All hell realm are saying, oh,
many times we probably say, oh, I don't believe that. You don't have to believe or not.
Just read what human beings are doing to the animal realms, those who are going to use it.
It is exactly saying what Buddha told in the hell realm. They're really going through that.
This is what all, it's this realm we can experience. To look into that, to look to us,
what the difference for us. Really, what the difference. We are to compare with that, to look
up, we are in heavens, not just in the samsara. Really, so, so brilliant, so competent, so original
,
so good. This is also according to the Buddha teaching, it's not just for accident.
It's not just for accident. It is our privilege, good activities. That's something that we
enjoy the result. Enjoy that, call it. What we need, what we lead to as being practitioners,
see that, see that, discover that from nicely and have the courage and commitment,
determine to use this beautiful opportunity make even more bright. One's own future as well as
the future of other beings. That is known as the symbol of practitioners. Doing that with
better good, with good. Take this advice, not just kind of throw away and neglect it and waste it
and
naively waste it. Take this advice, this. For that reason, what the gracious teacher said,
among the poor renour, says the poor. The freedom and the favorable condition of the human birth
is extremely difficult to obtain. Even though it is extremely to obtain, to obtain this,
we often, we are that. We have that. Therefore, joy and appreciation. Again, this joy and
appreciation
reflected this, what we call it, is according to Buddha's teaching, it's not just when you're
out of the dharma. That is a very foundational central column of the Buddha dharma. You really
bring up that beautiful quality. It is practices. You're touching to the heart, to touching to the
ground, not just looking the sky and hovering all the time. Jump to the earth, grounded, grounded.
Joy and appreciation. For those thoughts, we reflected that what in the gracious teacher,
in the practice leading, always said. Think of the freedom. Think of the freedoms. That's what we
have.
And the second thing of the luxuries, luxuries we have. And all targeting 18 qualities of the
human beings, or precious human beings. At freedom, 10 luxuries. We all have that in this room of
the state. We all have, not every human being, or every human being has that. But we have that.
Maybe
all human beings, not all human beings, maybe have that at freedoms, but not 10 luxuries. Not every
,
but we have 10 luxuries. I'm not going to go list of those things, you know.
Plus, we have luxuries of this world. Not just only 10, the luxuries there. Plus, we have luxuries
of samsara. Beautiful luxuries of samsara. Therefore, enjoy. Enjoy. Enjoy and enjoy in
appreciation. With humble enjoy, respect, and feel have some really good courage and commitment.
Something that I'm going to use this, something beautiful purpose, this opportunity. By the
blessings of the Buddha, Dhana, Sangha, and Guru Deva and Dakini, all lineage must bless me that I
can do something, this beautiful opportunity. Beautiful this life. Like meaningful to me,
and talk of all the living beings. Mangle that situation with both each other.
That is known as the practices. And they didn't practice the lineage, what is it?
Think of the freedom. Think of the luxuries. Think of how difficult to obtain these precious
human beings or human luxuries. That is in Buddha's teaching. Buddha told in the teaching,
say, a yoke, yoke, floating in the ocean. One yoke that has gold. Yoke, the fluid in the oceans.
Every hundred years, blind, totals come up in the ocean once in a while. Every hundred years,
totals come up. And then that yoke is also floating by the wind, back and forth in different
directions. And that wind totals come up, that head of the totals can go in the whole of the yoke.
That is actually more easy than to obtain the human body or precious human body.
And that's what religion can say. And that also I don't have now go over that. But even scientists
examine that. And they say, we got a really article. One stone we put on the bullet board,
it's really true. It's so damn. It's just amazing how we got this precious life. There's so many
difficulties that so hard, but yet we go on. So think of how difficult to obtain this. That's
something we got. How fortunate. How beautiful it is. Recognizing, acknowledging, recognizing
recognizing of the goodness as good is good dharma. And acknowledging and recognizing of the bad
things
as bad is also according to Buddhism, is dharma. You're using your intelligence, not ignoring,
not just a kind of skeptical way. Then we won't grow. We won't develop. We won't become perfect.
We will have to make perfect. To make perfect, we have to acknowledge,
enjoy, appreciate, have something not good. Trying to also recognize that. Trying to
come and reduce that. Trying to help the courage of the commitment won't do the repeat again.
Those are known as practitioners. Practitioners. So in the next one, what the grace master says
of the human being. And also, to compare it. To compare it, generally, human beings
and animals, among such animals, if we compare it to each other, human beings are so small,
so small number than that compared with animal beings. Animal beings is to look at animals,
even in one in ocean, how many animals there. Then to compare it of the all human beings,
the population is growing, many billions. But animals, even among ocean could have
trillions, not just billions. And then in earth, on the earth, or even 180, how many big animals.
To compare with that to these two human beings, generally human beings, in the teaching set,
what the teaching set. All the animal rams, compare all the six rams, among six rams and
human rams, each of those rams, is like dust of the earth. To compare with that, with human rams,
is dust on these, these, on the nails. Nails. Numbers of ours. I mean, all these things.
And we have such this precious thing, so therefore, really enjoy this. It's so,
so important. And that is what therefore should not too, too kind of enjoy. And with that
understanding, and then also have the great courage and commitment determined to use these
opportunities. Opportunities, not too much, grasping, clinging. Even it is so beautiful.
Even it is so spiritual, beautiful, it's not going to stay forever. That we know. I mean,
teaching set. Again, one great master, one of the great masters of Buddhism, known as Jersi
Mastur Tomi, in his teaching, and one of what's called very known, very famous, 37 practices of
the Bodhisattvas. What is that teaching set? Set. Set. Everything is best in parliament, in
parliament.
All our friends and families, even though we want to stay together forever, it's not going to
happen.
One day, there is separation. And even we like to keep all our wealth in the belongings,
belongings. And with making such a big hard, difficult hardships, and postural you get,
and then trying to maintain, then trying to increase, all that, that hardship, we got that,
that also not going to last forever. It will go away one day. And not just only that, even our
between, relation between our mind and Bodhis going to have separations. He said what? He said,
the guest, the consciousness guest will depart, depart from the house of the Bodhi.
Bodhi. So therefore, not too much grasping, not too much clinging. If we have not less grasping,
less clinging, more practical, use this opportunity that is known as the practice
of the Bodhisattvas. That's what teaching set. So therefore, not too much grasping,
not too much clinging. Then next one is.